new GraphQL website blog post (#1692)
graphql/graphql.github.io: src/pages/blog/2024-06-08-announcing-new-graphql-website/index.mdx

---

Hi, everyone! I'm [Dimitri POSTOLOV](https://x.com/dimaMachina_) from
[The Guild](https://the-guild.dev), and today I'm excited to announce the new
[GraphQL.org](/) website.

2 months ago, we released a new GraphQL website. We've been working on this for
about 2 months, and we're excited to share it with you.

## A Little Dive into History

An initial version of GraphQL.ORG v0 was created
[almost 8 years ago](https://github.com/graphql/graphql.github.io/pull/76) by
[Lee BYRON](https://x.com/leeb) in 2016.

![Screenshot of initial version of GraphQL.ORG v0](./graphql-org-v0.gif)

<p className="text-center">An initial version of GraphQL.ORG v0</p>

Later,
[after 4 years in 2020](https://github.com/graphql/graphql.github.io/pull/896),
the website was migrated to Gatsby by The Guild members
[Saihajpreet SINGH](https://x.com/singh_saihaj) and
[Arda TANRIKULU](https://x.com/ardatanrikulu).

![Screenshot of GraphQL.ORG v1 with Gatsby](./graphql-org-v1.gif)

<p className="text-center">GraphQL.ORG v1 x Gatsby</p>

All of us GraphQL developers spent a lot of time learning this language from the
"Learn" page, which is shown below, and you definitely remember it!

> > Also, we all hated visiting this page at night due to the lack of a night

Reviewer: "Hated" is too strong

```suggestion
> Also, we all disliked visiting this page at night due to the lack of a night
```

> theme. <span className="not-italic">😅</span>

![Screenshot of GraphQL.ORG v1 learn page](./graphql-org-v1-learn-page.png)

<p className="text-center">GraphQL.ORG Learn page x Gatsby</p>

> With the new website, we've made a lot of improvements, including a dark theme,
> below how the "Learn" page looks like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the new website we've made a lot of improvements, including a dark theme!
See how the "Learn" page looks now:
```

{/* prettier-ignore */}
<div className="mt-6 dark:even:[&_img]:hidden odd:[&_img]:hidden dark:odd:[&_img]:block">
  <>![Screenshot of GraphQL.ORG v2 learn page](./graphql-org-v2-learn-page-light.png)</>
  <>![Screenshot of GraphQL.ORG v2 learn page](./graphql-org-v2-learn-page-dark.png)</>
  <p className="text-center">GraphQL.ORG Learn page x Nextra</p>
</div>

## What's New

Here is a recap of the new features and improvements we've made to the website:

### Migration to Nextra 3 & Vercel

We migrated from Gatsby & Netlify to [Nextra](https://nextra.vercel.app) and
[Next.js](https://nextjs.org). We chose Nextra because it's a great tool for
building documentation websites, also [The Guild](https://the-guild.dev)
maintains and improves it continuously. This migration helped us to improve the
website's performance and bundle size.

This migration was the final part before releasing the upcoming Nextra version.
You can read my blog post about Nextra 3 in
[The Guild blog](https://the-guild.dev/blog/nextra-3). Recently, we migrated all

> The Guild documentation websites to Nextra 3, and we can assume that it's stable
> for production.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Guild documentation websites to Nextra 3, so we know it's stable
for production.
```

> Also, at the same time while migrating this website, I started to work on the
> future Nextra 4 version with [app router support](https://nextjs.org/docs/app).
> Once the first Nextra 4 alpha is out, this website be updated too!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While migrating this website, I started work on the
future Nextra 4 version with [app router support](https://nextjs.org/docs/app).
Once the first Nextra 4 alpha is out, `graphql.org` will be updated to it!
```

### New Search Engine

> A search was migrated from Algolia to Nextra's built-in search

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Search was migrated from Algolia to Nextra's built-in search
```

> [Flexsearch](https://github.com/nextapps-de/flexsearch)

Reviewer: Perhaps add a motivation to this, for example:

```suggestion
[Flexsearch](https://github.com/nextapps-de/flexsearch), providing users
with realtime results and improved privacy.
```

### Light and Dark Themes

> For the first time, since the creation of GraphQL.ORG, we have a dark theme! You

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the first time since the creation of GraphQL.ORG, we have a dark theme! You
```

Author: pushed local commit to fix it

can switch between light and dark themes using the toggle in the top right
corner.

### Improved Accessibility

Accessibility and contrast mode have been improved to make the website more
accessible.

### Better Bundle Size and First Load Time

The new website has a better bundle size and first load time compared to the

> previous version.

Reviewer: If you have any numbers on this (reduced by X% and now loads Y times faster), that would be a great addition. No worries if not!

Author: I tried and I don't know how to properly measure this transition between Gatsby and Next.js, so I just completely removed this paragraph

### New [/code](/code) and [/community](/community) Pages

We are excited to show [the new Code](/code) page which was renamed to "Tools
and Libraries". You can read in the
[GitHub repo](https://github.com/graphql/graphql.github.io/blob/source/notes/ContributingToCodePage.md)
how to contribute to this page and add your library or tool.

> [The community](/community) page was redesigned and restructured. And now you
> can find all community resources in one place.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[The community](/community) page was redesigned and restructured; now you
can find all community resources in one place.
```

### New [/conf](/conf) Page for GraphQLConf 2024

With the new website, we are excited to announce the upcoming GraphQLConf 2024.
More info can be read on [GraphQLConf 2024 page](/conf/2024) or in
[the official announcement blogpost](/blog/2024-03-28-announcing-graphqlconf-2024).

> Also, you can check [the previous conference GraphQLConf 2023](/conf/2023).

## Conclusion

> When I started to learn GraphQL in 2018 I could never imagine that one day I
> would be working on this migration! I am excited to be a part of this journey
> and finally release the new website which is much better than the previous 🥳.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When I started to learn GraphQL in 2018, I could never have imagined that one day I
would be working on this migration! I am excited to be a part of this journey
and to have finally released the new website, a significant improvement over the old one! 🥳
```

Subscribe to me in [X](https://x.com/dimaMachina_) and

> [GitHub](https://github.com/dimaMachina) and see you in GraphQLConf 2024 🚀.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[GitHub](https://github.com/dimaMachina) and see you at GraphQLConf 2024 🚀.
```
